I will continue to move on to
actually building out this layout.
So I'm gonna head back
to the player layout and
we're gonna actually make this a thing.
So again, there needs to be
a sidebar to the left, and
then a music bar at the bottom.
So let's kinda get going with that.
First thing I want to do is,
because if you think about that design,
it's kind of like a fixed width, right?
If we go back,
this sidebar is never gonna move and
this player bar is never gonna move,
they're always there.
The only thing that really moves is,
if you can see right here at the playlist,
you can see there's a scroll bar there,
that playlist section is its
own container and it moves,
but the sidebar that's containing
it doesn't actually move at all.
So because of that, I'm probably gonna
use an absolute positioning to put
everything where it needs to be, and
then just do math, and go from there.
That's probably what I'll end up doing.
If this was gonna be super responsive,
you could probably still do that and
then just use nonfixed values like pixels
instead of use ems or percentages and
things like that.
And I kind of see that approach a lot in
this common dashboard set up now where
it's absolutely position
sidebar with a margin left or
something on the main thing, so
we'll kind of do the same thing.
So the question was,
if we're doing absolute positioning,
when we do get to responsive design is the
technique to do some type of collapse to
get it out the way, maybe do a hamburger
menu or something like that.
Yeah, totally I see that a lot.
People also will just typically, it really
depends on how you do the responsiveness.
Are you doing it in CSS,
are you doing it in JavaScript?
Because in chakra UI, you can actually
write a media query using a hook.
You can write a media query in line or
in a component.
So really just depends on how you're
doing that and how you toggle that, but
typically what I would do is I would
have two different components.
I would have one component that's for
desktop view, that's the navigation.
And I'll have another component, that's
the same navigation but for mobile view.
And then I would just toggle the two
depending on what state I was in, and
that state is determined off a media
query hook, that way it's reactive.
But you can also do the same
thing in CSS as well.
But you'll probably need classes for that.
You'll either have a class
that's hidden on mobile, right?
And that's inside of a media query.
When it's in a media query,
its display is there but on desktop,
it says display none, right?
So that's another way you can do it.
But these days,
I typically avoid writing CSS files.
So [LAUGH] I love CSS, I just don't
like writing it in a CSS file.
Which is strange because, I used to
remember just love writing stylus and
Sass and Less all the time.
Really love doing it, I now I'm just like,
I don't wanna write that anymore.
I just wanna grab a component lib that
gets me more than halfway there and
then just tweak it.
It's a lot faster in my opinion.
But don't get me wrong, I'll hop on CSS
wars and battle somebody, if I need to,
right?
I'll do it but only if I have to.
For this box,
let's give it a width of 100 vw.
If you don't know know what that unit is,
vw stands for view width.
It's relatively new, I guess.
But it means just 100% of the view port or
whatever screen you're on.
If you're on a 12 inch screen,
it'll be that wide.
If you're on a 21 inch screen,
It's what you think 100% would be but
it's not.
This is what it actually is, this is
the full width of the screen, cool.
And then we're gonna do the same thing for
height.
So height would be 100 vh,
which stands for view height.
So, it's 100% height of
the screen that you're on.
This is a responsive unit of measurement.
So if you shrink the screen,
then obviously it shrinks as well.
So this is great for
responsive design as well.
So we're gonna do that.
This is gonna keep our
main page from scrolling.
Nothing on the main pages scrolls, each
individual thing scrolls on its own versus
having the whole page scroll by itself.
Which is what you will see
on a content website or
something like that we're just scrolling.
Then the next thing we're gonna do is,
we're gonna make a new box here and
we're gonna give this
a position of absolute.
And by the way,
see how I'm able to just write CSS
properties as props on these components.
This is why I chose chakra UI, because it
literally has mapped every CSS property
that you could ever do and made it a prop
on every component that they have.
If you don't like writing a prop for
every single one,
you can use this other thing called SX.
And it takes an object of CSS properties,
and then they do the same thing.
I could put width here, and
you can see I got all these type
checked CSS properties here already.
So to me this is much better than writing
CSS in a CSS file because you don't even
need a CSS preprocessor.
You are using JavaScript at this point,
which is what every CSS
preprocessor wants to be anyway.
So yeah, to me, this is just much better.
And yeah, it lives right next to the JSX.
I had two go into places,
it's scoped already, it's not global.
So it just works.
So I'm gonna say position absolute for
this box.
I'm gonna give a top of 0 and
a width of, let's see.
So this is gonna be for the sidebar.
You can kind of play around with this, but
I think what I found was 250 pixels
wide for the sidebar was pretty cool.
Obviously that's gonna look different
depending on what screen size you're on.
But you can play around with this number,
you can put a percentage here if you want.
I don't recommend that,
cuz then it'll look really,
really big on it like a 30 inch screen,
your sidebar will be massive.
So typically I always like to give
the sidebar a fixed width no matter what
screen size you're on because
it shouldn't get bigger.
Whereas the page itself probably would
get bigger on a page, but a sidebar,
the navigation typically doesn't.
Imagine a toolbar at the top that got
taller if you rotated your screen
vertically, that would be weird, right?
So yeah, I think navigation is one of
those things that should never change its
dimensions no matter
what the screen size is.
So it's either there or it isn't,
depending on mobile or not.
Okay, and then I'm also gonna do a left 0.
So this will be our sidebar, and
I'm just gonna type in the word sidebar,
so we know it's there.
And then for the next part, so
if we have a sidebar on the left,
then to the right of that
is the actual page, right?
So that's where the content is gonna be.
So we're gonna make another box for that.
There we go.
And we need to account, because
the sidebar is absolutely positioned,
we have to make that, let me show you the
visuals cuz I'm just using my hands here.
So we're creating the container for
this page now, and
because this is absolutely positioned and
is turned to 50 pixels wide,
we have to have this section account for
that 250 pixels.
So we have to put some margin on the left,
that's 250 pixels, so
it doesn't render underneath it.
Cuz that's what would happen if we didn't
do that cuz it's absolute position.
So it'll just sit there underneath it.
So if we offset it by turning
50 pixels to the left,
we can push it over, and
then we can also use math to determine how
wide it is by using the calc
function inside of CSS.
So that's what we'll do.
By no means is this
the only way to do this?
This is the way that I thought was
the best and it usually works out.
And my favorite, I do less debugging
this way with CSS [LAUGH].
So we will do that.
So for this box,
we're gonna say marginLeft.
So everything that's dashed delimited
in CSS as a prop is gonna be CamelCase.
So instead of margin_Left, because
you can't use dashes and prop names,
this is gonna be margin
left with CamelCase.
And like I said, we got to count for
that 250 pixels.
So I'll say 250 pixels, just like that.
And then the next thing,
what I'll do is I also want to account for
the bar that's gonna go underneath it.
That's also gonna be absolutely positioned
as well, and we need to account for that.
So we'll be coming back to this and
adding a margin bottom.
But for now,
I'm just gonna render the children here.
So that's where the children get rendered,
which will be the page.
And underneath that is the bar where
we're actually playing things.
So I'm gonna make a box here.
This too will have a position of absolute,
just like the sidebar,
except its left will be 0,
and its bottom will be 0.
We don't want this to go on top.
And then I'll just say player here.
And just to swing back to this box up
here where we're rendering the children,
we have to account for the height of
whatever the play bar is gonna be.
Again, this is like you kind of
got to play around with it and
see what visually looks good.
This is where you have your design tool
and you're like, how tall is this thing,
how many pixels is it?
I think what worked out for
me was 100 pixels.
So I'm just gonna give this
a margin bottom of 100 pixels, and
that should give that player
enough space down there.
And I'm gonna come back to here so
we're still copying it, don't worry,
I'm gonna come back.
I just wanna visually make sure that all
these looks like the way it's supposed to
look like.
So if we look at this page, you can see
that other than this homepage it's huge,
we should probably get rid
of this at some point,
but it's actually doing
what we need to do.
We have a sidebar on the left, and then
on the right we have the main content of
the page, and
then underneath it there's a player.
So we're getting closer, we're there, but
obviously we need to style the things and
make them look good.
So pretty close.